# Forest Fires
Forest fires pose a significant threat to the environment and human well-being, causing extensive damage to ecosystems and endangering biodiversity. Human-induced forest fires are a pressing issue worldwide.

According to the National Park Service, people are responsible for almost 85% of wildland fires in the United States. These fires happen because of different human activities like leaving campfires unattended, burning waste, equipment use and accidents, throwing away cigarettes carelessly, and even purposeful arson. (National Park Service, 2022)

However, forest fires can also be caused by natural factors such as dry conditions, high temperatures, lightning, and volcanic eruptions. (National Park Service, 2022) Unfortunately, climate change has resulted in more frequent and intense forest fires over the last ten years.

Machine learning algorithms have grown in importance in the prediction and prevention of forest fires. Machine learning algorithms can find trends and predict the possibility of future forest fires with high accuracy using historical data on forest fires and numerous climatic variables such as temperature, humidity, wind speed, and rain. As a result, determining if particular factors can be used to predict whether a forest fire has occurred or will occur, as well as how accurate they will be, becomes critical in adopting machine learning algorithms to prevent and control forest fires. These models can also assist wildfire organisations in efficiently allocating resources and responding rapidly to an impending forest fire. (Sathishkumar, V.E. et al. 2023.)

This notebook will look at the Forest Fires dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository. The dataset contains information involving forest fires in two regions of Algeria, with the goal of identifying whether a forest fire exists in a specific region. (ABID, F. 2020.) Algeria is one such country that is frequently affected by forest fires, especially during the summer months. These fires have become a significant concern for Algerian authorities, as they cause significant environmental and economic damage (Al Jazeera 2021).

This notebook will study the Algerian forest fires dataset to find out some interesting information by analyzing the trends. This will help figure out if it's possible to predict whether a forest fire might happen in a particular area of Algeria. The purpose of doing this is to help develop an early warning system for forest fires. This system could play a vital role in preventing and managing forest fires in Algeria.
